Good afternoon.
My name is Rob Neville and I'm the
manager of the Service Location
Engineering team at Apple.
And this session for those of you in the
room in the dark out there is on NSL.
If you came to hear about something else,
you can leave.
I'd like to go over some of the
highlights of NSL and I'd like to start
off with some of you in the room that
as I was looking before the session
started I recognized from past years.
And some of you were fresh faces.
Doesn't mean you haven't been here,
it's just I didn't recognize you.
NSL came out of a team
that was primarily,
that Apple was primarily
responsible for doing personal
web sharing about four years ago.
And as soon as we delivered
a server on every desktop,
we became acutely aware that it was
difficult to find TCP IP services on
the net in the same way as we were able
to find personal file sharing servers
or Apple share servers on the network.
And as people started moving
into a more dynamic environment,
where they didn't have a specific
TCP IP address from one boot to the next,
it became even more critical to
be able to somehow put out to the
world or to your intranet a way
to tell people where services on
your particular CPU were located.
And out of that investigation
and search came NSL,
Network Service Location.
In an essence, in a nutshell,
what NSL is, is a way for,
for servers and services that are
written as part of the OS or by people
like you to register those services on
the network and then have client-based
applications find those services.
Those services can be registered
dynamically in much in the same way as,
you know, 10 years ago you were doing an
MVP register on an Apple Talk network.
You can now do an NSL register and get
your services registered on your network.
They can be found by your client,
and they can be found by your client.
They can be found by your client-based
applications through a common interface.
The first year that we did NSL,
we basically gave you a series
of APIs that allowed you
And we got feedback from you.
And the feedback from you was
give us a common UI so that for
all of our client applications
we don't have to roll our own.
Next year we came back and you
had your Common UI and we've
put that Common UI into 10,
excuse me, into 9.
and into 8 before that.
So it's in the classic Macintosh
operating system so that your
servers can register on the network.
And client applications that you write
that can connect to your servers or other
services such as AppleScript that take
advantage of NSL can access your servers
over the network as long as you register.
Last year the theme was if you register,
they will find you.
If you don't, they won't.
And as we move forward,
it becomes critical for you as
service providers and as developers
who provide services that customers
are going to try and access for you
to register these in particular ways.
We've gotten more feedback from you since
that time that simple URL registration,
while it's good because it
gives the address of the server
that you're trying to talk to,
may not go far enough.
So as part of this particular session,
we'd like to have maybe a broader Q&A or
maybe even a brainstorming session
towards the end to try and get your
feedback on where you would like to
see this technology go in the future.
NSL is shipping on the Macintosh
operating system since 8.0.
It's callable via the APIs.
There haven't been any
substantial changes in the
APIs and no changes in the SDK.
It's callable through AppleScript if
you have an in-house kind of service or
application that you're trying to write
and you want to find one of the services
that's available through AppleScript,
you can call it through AppleScript.
And there are multiple plug-ins where
you can store and/or find the services
that you wish to locate on the network.
You can find them via MBP.
You can find them via an LDAP plug-in.
You can also find them via SLP.
More on SLP as we go along.
On Mac OS X, we have a Carbon UI library.
The UI is callable
through the APIs as well.
It's also available
through Apple Scripts.
So if you write an Apple Script that's
runnable in your 9 environment,
it's also runnable in 10.
We've also made some tweaks to the UI.
The tweaks we've made to the UI have
entailed some changes in functionality
and some changes in the way that
the data is organized and displayed,
and we'll get to that in a little bit.
In Mac OS X, we only have 2 plug-ins.
As you'll see when we get to a UI slide,
you only see one,
but we have 2 plug-ins in Mac OS X.
We have an SLP plug-in
and an MVP plug-in.
The MVP plug-in is only available
through low-level API calls.
A lot of the services available in
the Apple Talk stack are not available
all the way to the session layer.
We thought it probably would be confusing
if we made that readily available to
customers when a lot of the services
that call NSL in the beginning weren't
able to access those Apple Talk services.
When we were here last year
we talked about having a
Directory Services plug-in.
We did extensive work on the
We have a Directory Services plug-in up
and running in various people's offices.
It didn't make the cutoff date,
didn't make the ship date for Mac OS X.
We don't have an LDAP plug-in per se.
The beauty of Directory Services,
especially as it relates to NSL,
is if you have your data stored
in primarily a static directory
out there on the network,
you can use Directory Services to
locate the data that you
wish to store out there.
That gives IS departments the capability
of using existing infrastructure,
writing with existing tools such as
PEARL to enter corporate assets or user
assets in a directory of their choosing.
We thought LDAP was one
that was utilized a lot,
which is why we did it on 8 and 9.
But they could put it in a directory of
their choosing and then access that data
through a common UI through NSL because
we make a directory services calls.
If someone comes along,
such as people here in this audience,
and there was a presentation
yesterday on directory services,
someone comes along and writes a
new directory services plug-in,
let's say for ActiveX,
though I don't know,
then you can also access
the same services,
find URLs inside of an
ActiveX directory that you can
inside of an SLP infrastructure
or inside an LDAP directory.
And that's where the beauty of
directory services comes in.
And we still intend, and as I said,
we had it working in the lab,
but it did not make the ship date.
We didn't--we're not doing a
demonstration today because
NSL is shipping with the OS.
It's shipped--the UI has
been shipping since Mac OS 8.
In Mac OS 9,
you had AppleScript capability and
functionality there so you had access to
the standard UI either via AppleScript or
through making API calls and in 10,
you
It's there when you call Connect2.
Connect2 is a finder call which makes
a call then into our UI library.
And it searches for only things
in this particular release that
the finder knows what to do with.
In this particular case,
the only plugin that's getting
executed in Mac OS X as it
currently exists is the SLP plugin.
That SLP plugin is put in--has
been put into a sub-container
currently called Local Network.
When you select the Local Network,
what you see then is a list of
sub-scopes of that SLP network
and services in the default scope.
There are some things that are
different in the Mac OS X environment
versus any programming that
you might be doing in Mac OS 9.
Threading is different.
The threading mechanisms that
we used in Mac OS 9 we did not
have to port over to Mac OS X.
You don't have to yield any thread.
We've also broken the plugins and
the managers and the UI library
into their own frameworks.
in such a way that should, going forward,
people want to make calls to
the underlying managers to get
that raw data as it comes in
over the wire after requests.
Those can be done at as low
a level as we can make it.
These are not just high-level
APIs that can be called.
These are part of the
core foundation libraries.
So the NSL UI library exists
in the Carbon framework and the
low-level manager libraries exist
in the core services framework.
So if you're writing something that's
going to be writing to core services,
you can take advantage
of making NSL API calls,
getting back the data that you wish,
and then you
: So,
I'm going to start off by displaying
that in whatever format you choose.
If you wish to take advantage of the
common UI that we've rolled and continue
to roll and to test and to fix bugs in,
then you would want to make calls
to the higher level UI library
which is currently in Carbon.
The other thing that has changed in
the NSL and the Mac OS X environment
is the information is no longer
available per NSL neighborhood.
In addition, the protocol list is handled
a little bit differently.
And let me try and
explain this a little bit.
And if you called NSL and
Mac OS 9 and you got your,
quote, default
Zone or your default subnet
or your default scope.
We had an algorithm which went
and checked and see what your
domain name was and that is what
we put your default scope in.
And if we got information
back from multiple plug-ins,
we group those together in a particular
grouping in the UI.
So for example,
if my domain was earthlink.net at home,
and I had a couple of
servers at my home office,
they'd all show up in earthlink.net.
In a small corporate environment where
I may have some services that existed
on a DNS server or in an LDAP directory,
and I got back common data
both from that and from SLP,
we did the union of the data return from
those and put it in what appeared to be
a single scope or a single neighborhood.
That's no longer done.
Basically, each individual setting
as you see back to
This local network will just
currently return you SLP data.
Our customers don't know what
SLP is and probably don't care.
Your customers don't care what SLP is.
When AppleTalk--when and if AppleTalk is
enabled in this particular environment,
what you would see would be an
AppleTalk container which when you
clicked on would give you all the
AppleTalk zones in your network and
then you would have a local network
container which would give you all the
SLP zones in your neighborhood and you
would also see those servers that would
be accessible via directory services.
So each of those are in
their same environment.
The other thing which was mentioned
briefly in the Mac OS X server
The first thing that we were gathering
yesterday was in Mac OS X server
we're shipping an SLP server.
Well, in actuality we're shipping
an SLP server in Mac OS X.
It's configurable through a common UI.
That common UI is managed
via remote administration.
But that server is in essence the
same server that exists and is
available in every version of Mac OS X.
And it's an SLP daemon that we have.
As I was mentioning,
it's fully configurable
through the Mac OS X server.
And what does this give you?
Well, this gives you the capability
of subdividing your
SLP network into logical,
Scopes or Neighborhoods.
There are scopes in SLP.
But it allows you to have more than
one grouping of logical devices or
logical services on the network.
Currently, everything goes by default
into a scope known as default.
However, they don't have to.
There's always a default
neighborhood which is available,
and that would be what people might
see as their local environment.
But there is also the ability to
create scopes on an SLP server.
And you can have more than
one SLP server on a network.
You don't have to have the same
number of scopes on each server.
You don't have to have the same names
of the same scopes on each server.
If you do,
and I register in a local server
next door to me or down the hall,
and there's a scope for, say,
engineering in another building.
That data will get propagated across
the network so that the person who's
in an engineering scope in Building 1
and myself in Building 2 will see the
same data in that particular scope.
So your network will
no longer appear flat.
However, SLP is not a hierarchical
networking architecture.
It is, in essence, like Apple Talk.
What it will allow you to
do is segment your network.
But what we've seen at Apple and as we
roll this technology out internally is
there are some services in Mac OS X and
Mac OS 9 which register with NSL.
And when you call the finder
and you look for those services,
primarily file services,
you will see thousands of them.
That is very distressing.
We attempt to solve this
problem with an SLP server.
Much in the same way as if there
was no 255 node limit for AppleTalk,
if you could have this
infinitely large AppleTalk zone,
you know, what would the confusion
be in that particular case?
So with NSL 10 Server,
we're shipping an SLP scope utility.
Basically,
we're hoping at some particular point,
though we don't know
how this is going to be,
to us with SLP,
this is a natural extension
of your system preferences.
Much in the same way as you designate
what your default Apple Talk zone is,
you'll get an opportunity to designate
what default scope you're going
to be putting your service into.
And it's also you can choose which scope
you want via an Apple script in Mac OS X.
Excuse me, in Mac OS 9.
There's an Apple script that ships with
the printer utility that allows you to
choose which scope you wish to be in.
And that becomes even more
useful now that we're shipping
an SLP server on Mac OS X.
So now we get to the point where we're
going to want some of your feedback.
And before I ask for your feedback here,
I'd like to tell you some of the things
which we're thinking about doing.
And then I'd like to ask you whether or
not we're going in the right direction,
whether or not there are more
things that you'd like to see,
are there some things
we haven't thought of.
Basically, let us know what you think.
We had some feedback last year, just one,
but I wanted to bring it up
again because we don't have it.
We have a Carbon UI library.
And we have been thinking internally
about providing a Cocoa UI library.
We also are moving to use core foundation
types in the SDKs and in the APIs.
That would mean some
changes to your code.
We also are going to attempt or been
thinking about making the UI much more
Customizable.
Currently we have a few options.
You can display the text edit box or not.
You can display the list of services
that you want people to switch to or not,
a pop-up.
Fairly minor kinds of things.
And we're looking at providing
more options in the NSL UI library.
We also have been exploring
the possibility of providing,
and I would like to get
your feedback on this,
providing a full SLP library with
support for all SLP attributes
as part of the Core OS.
And we're also working for and attempting
to have more seamless integration with
NSL as part of the Finder experience.
One of the other things that we've been
looking at is a concept of meta URLs.
As I mentioned at the beginning,
we've been around for about
four years and when we started
doing this development,
we were looking at solving
a particular problem.
Well, since NSL now has been
out for three years,
We're starting to get some
feedback as to how people are
actually using the product.
One of the people that is a primary
customer of our product currently
is the Finder under Mac OS.
And the Finder knows about files.
It knows about file systems.
Well, excuse me,
it doesn't know about file systems.
It knows how to move files
around in a file system.
But it only knows what to do with files.
It doesn't know what
to do with web pages.
From a display standpoint,
it doesn't know what to do with printers.
So what we're thinking about
doing is having a prefix to the
URL which would basically say
what the type of service was.
How does this impact you?
Well, if you agree and we move along with
the adoption of this particular
: So, in the current approach,
it would mean probably registering
more than one URL type.
Registering the URL,
I'm in a WebDAV server and
registering it being an X file.
So that a service that knows--different
services that know how to handle
different types could say,
"Give me all the types of file."
Then, if you have a plug-in
architecture of some sort,
you don't necessarily, at run time,
know which file systems are
loaded or which file URLs,
remote file URLs, you know how to handle.
But you say,
"Give me the types file on the network.
I will then pass off the URL to
whatever my mounting mechanism is,"
which may be different for NFS,
which may be different for AFP,
which is different--definitely
different from WebDAV.
And then that's--that
service will get mounted.
In the current OS,
this is basically the way it works,
except there's no free
form extensibility.
Basically the file system knows
how to handle--file system right
out of the box knows how to
handle and mount AFP volumes,
NFS volumes, and WebDAV volumes.
You can at the Connect To prompt
type in URLs for AFP,
NFS, or HTTP and that HTTP will get
you to a WebDAV if there's a
WebDAV server running at that address.
And -- but it only cares
about mounting file systems.
It passes that URL data off to URL Mount.
URL Mount then goes and
mounts it in the file system.
Once it's mounted in the file system,
the finder deals with it as it
does any other mounted volume.
You may also have a need or a want to
connect to a particular different types
of web services or services of your own
Design.
So that you may design a plug-in
architecture into your particular system.
At runtime, you don't necessarily know
what plug-ins are running.
Those systems get registered at runtime
to know how to handle particular URLs.
The servers that you're keeping
your data on will register what
services are running on their machine.
The UI that you use to find
those services would be dynamic,
be able to find those,
and then you would be able to handle
them and branch those off appropriately.
In addition,
we're looking at extending the
URLs to handle attribute lists.
The primary impetus for this
has come from printer folks.
They want to be able to browse
for printers that handle color
printing two-sided on Wednesdays.
And
There's no real way to encode
that in a URL that we're used
to dealing with right now.
With the advent of our SLP server,
network administrators and/or
people who are running print shops
with printers of different types,
if the printers don't have this
registration for themselves
built into their firmware,
can register these things with
our SLP server and/or put it in an
LDAP directory or a NetInfo directory
or an ActiveX directory or whatever,
because of directory services.
And then their people using the
utility to access that printer
can find it on the network,
can switch between one or another,
depending upon what the attributes are.
They can put up,
depending on what attributes are
attributed with the registered
server or the registered printer
out there in the network,
can change the dialog box appropriately.
So what we're looking at and
what we've been discussing is
having a group of meta URLs.
It's Wednesday afternoon.
What I understand is that at 6:00
they're going to start serving
And we're at a point with NSL where
we've delivered a technology.
We've talked to developers,
we've talked to you all out there,
some of you who are developing and
are using this technology in a sort of
New way.
New in that you've got a technology
that really hasn't rolled out into
production environment as of yet.
But you're exploring the possibilities.
Well,
we don't want to make changes to NSL that
[Transcript missing]